---
layout: post
title: Min-maxing and mindset
---
One of the first things I used to do when I got home from school was take my shoes off and head into my room. I would dedicate hours to the most important task at hand, which really took precedence over everything else in my life - my friends, family, sleep, homework - everything. 

There really was no balance in my life, it was chaotic and this continued until I was 17. I would do the bare minimum at everything else, focus all my energy into gaming and repeat. It wasn't until I failed all but one paper in my first semester of University till I decided to make a change.

You see, the thing with games is that they give you a false sense of accomplishment - you feel good when you do something and it becomes addictive. That is until the day you realise that when you log out, you have nothing to show for it except an imaginary badge which is meaningless.

I used to think: how much could I have achieved if I dedicated so much time into absolutely anything else - an instrument, sports or studies. But I realise that's a wasted thought, time is something you never get back. I realised later on that I learnt a lot from playing games - it showed me that hard work and time can make you stand at the top. I played league of legends every moment I could and the reason was that it was fun, it was competitive, there was a ladder you could climb and not many people could get near the top. 

Every time you lost, you could analyse and think what you could have done differently to change the outcome of the game - this was a skill that many players lacked which meant they would stay in the same place forever. Players who learnt from their mistakes, adapted and truly understood the only factor they could control was themselves were the only ones who could stand at the top.

This kind of thinking can be applicable in any area of your life. As long as you use this mindset in any other area of life, you can climb any ladder.

The other thing that gaming taught me was the concept of min-maxing which is just as it sounds using the minimum time you can for the maximum results. Efficiency was a big thing in these games, because **A)** if you were competitive you wanted get ahead of everyone else as fast as you can and **B)** you didn't have all the time in the world.  So you would think about how to do things in a better and more efficient way. The thought occurred to me, I have been doing all of these things in my games but never in my real life.  Of course I wouldn't be able to maximise every minute to the fullest, but I could start somewhere.
